[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you today bucky and palace
remain
silent 24 hours after the first
broadcast of harry and meghan's
oprah interview but in the u.s friends
of the couple
rally round their cruelty
in going after megan uh
was just outrageous a lawyer for
ansakulis the american woman who caused
the death of harry dunn in 2019 has
explained why she is not willing to
stand trial
in the uk the daughter of the former
scotland
manchester united and leeds footballer
gordon mcqueen speaks for the first time
since her father's diagnosis of dementia
there have been moments where i'm like
god i can't believe the thing that gave
him so much
love has now so cruelly taken a lot of
him away from us
it comes as a parliamentary inquiry is
launched today into the links between
sport
and long-term brain injury good morning
how scammers success spread with the
virus tens of millions have been stolen
over the past year
as fraudsters cash in on people feeling
vulnerable and working from home we look
at ways to stay protected
good morning it's a cold and clear start
to the day across some southern areas
in the west we've got more cloud in
patchy rain that will travel east
through the day
but later more persistent rain and some
strengthening winds arrive in the west
leading us into a very unsettled couple
of days and nights
i'll have all the details later in the
programme
[Music]
morning to you it's a tuesday the 9th of
march our main story the royal family
remains silent more than 24 hours after
the duke and duchess of sussex's
explosive interview with oprah winfrey
in the broadcast watched by millions of
people around the world megan raised
allegations of racism and a lack of
support from within the institution
keith doyle has more viewers in the uk
got to watch the full interview last
night and the fallout this morning is
nuclear
the headlines could not be worse for the
palace
turmoil and crisis they are no less
forgiving on the other side of the
atlantic
oprah's interview with the duke and
duchess of sussex just aired for the
first time in the uk
now britain braces for fallout
good morning america despite being
previewed teased and dominating the news
the claims made and heard in the context
of the full two-hour interview
are still able to shock claims that
megan was driven close to suicide
and that a member of the royal family
discussed the skin color
of the duke and duchess's soon to be
born child
in those months when i was pregnant all
around this same time
so we have in tandem the conversation of
he won't be
given security he's not going to be
given a title
and also concerns and conversations
about how dark his skin might be when
he's born
what throughout the interview the
picture painted
was one of an uncaring and unsupportive
institution
at odds with the image of being at the
head of a multicultural country
and commonwealth in america this summer
we just went through the black lives
matter movement and the killing of
george floyd
and what we see is when we see this
monarchy we see an institution that we
revered
and now we find out that you guys have
the same issues of
racial and racism and systemic racism
that we do in the united states
so yes it does hurt us it almost seems
like a fairy tale shattered for many of
us
overnight there's been no comment from
buckingham palace which is sure to be
reeling from such explosive claims by
those
at the very heart of the royal family
all eyes
and the media spotlight is on here today
to see how
or if it responds well i don't see the
see buckingham palace as being like the
kremlin and um
on on the whole they're you know very a
very civilized organization
because and i also don't think that they
are likely
to engage in a there's a kind of war
between two parties which of course the
tabloid press would greatly enjoy
the harry and megan love story was a
fairy tale
and brought young modern vitality into
the royal family
this interview has brought up real
issues that can't easily be ignored
security mental health and trust just a
few years on from the fairy tale
and for buckingham palace all that has
turned to crisis management
on an epic scale keith doyle bbc news
and there has of course been a reaction
to the interview from the white house
also former secretary of state hillary
clinton
let's speak to our washington
correspondent lebo desecco who joins us
from the u.s capitol
and it's clear this conversation is
going to continue for some time isn't it
morning yeah i mean this
interview aired last night here it's
been more than 24 hours since it went
out and still it is making headlines
i think by far and large one of the
biggest talking points has been the
allegations of racism particularly
concerning
harriet and megan's child i think that
a lot of people have been asking what
this says about race and race relations
within the uk more widely and how far
we may have to go in the uk
i think in contrast to some of the
coverage i've seen from the uk
media over here that megan and harry did
receive a fairly sympathetic
audience and also megan's experience
particularly as a woman
of color has been believed also when she
spoke
about her experiences or revealed that
she had felt suicidal
that too has been by and large uh
believed
this received a record of viewings uh
more than 17 million people tuned in to
watch and it has been streamed
as well and even as you mentioned in
your intro came up at the white house
the
uh press secretary jenn sarkee was asked
about it at a briefing
she was quite diplomatic tried to
be quite careful in what she said but
just have a listen to her comments
you know megan mark markle is a private
citizen
and so is harry at this point for anyone
to come forward and speak about their
own struggles with mental health and
tell their own personal story
that takes courage that's certainly
something the president believes and
he's talked about the importance of
um you know investing in a lot of these
areas that they're committed to in the
future as well
also somebody that spoke out in a far
less diplomatic way
is hillary clinton she said that she was
disappointed
at the way that the royal family the
institution
had treated megan and also spoke about
the behaviour of the british press which
she called outrageous
their cruelty in going after megan
uh was just outrageous
and the fact she did not get more
support that the
the the reaction was you know let's just
paper it over and pretend that
it didn't happen or it will go away just
keep your head down well
you know this young woman was not about
to keep her head down you know this is
and i think that the reaction overall
has been that this
does not look great for the british
royal family
one network repeatedly calling this
kryptonite for them
i've spoken to a number of americans who
said as was reflected in the report that
we
uh heard just now that when megan
married
into the royal family they thought that
this was a family that was modernizing
and british society
modernizing and the fact that it has
turned out this way
raises questions about where we are in
in the uk as a society now
libertarian thank you very much for
talking to us thank you
the american woman accused over the
death of harry dunn would be willing to
do community service and make a
contribution in his memory this is
according to her lawyer
19 year old harry died excuse me when
his motorcycle was involved in a
collision with a car
near raf crorton in 2019
and seculars who was driving that car
later returned to her car
to her home in the united states and
claimed diplomatic immunity
her lawyer has told the bbc she won't
return to the uk
to stand trial this kind of an accident
had it occurred in the united states
would not be prosecuted criminally
so in the united states these cases are
only prosecuted where
there is evidence of recklessness that
rises to the level of
close to intent so drunk driving
distracted driving
or a hit-and-run situation or excessive
speeding
but there was none of that here
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with
co dot bbc.co.uk forward slash news
follow the story for all the latest with
bbc news